Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture.
Let's keep going.
And let's answer.
Question number eight.
So for question number eight here we have a list of salaries.
OK.
Kind of you know the names along with the salaries and I'm asking you to create a list of all keys and
list of all values only.
OK.
So to do that you what you could do you know say okay I'm going to go to my.
And this causality which is my dictionary that I defined before.
Let's define it first stood on it.
Now go get a head to my salary.
If I said Dot values we have done that before.
That should open simply all my values here.
But the key point is here.
In order to keep a list out of it I know what I need to do.
They need to do casting and to do simply to cast the values I'm getting here into a list of say okay
whatever I'm getting out of this I'm going to make it or convert it into lists and ganas name it let's
say whatever it names.
For example if I and that's and if I wanted to make it take a look at names then you'll come up basically
with a list value that has all the values associated with it 25 28 and 30 perfect.
If I wanted to keep the keys which is Alex Sally and Dina again what I could do in a silk in my salad
is it's the values I mean to say came my keys if I'm that I mean I'm going to call it names my apologies
he they're going to call it.
For example salads go equality.
So my apologies here.
I'm going to define the values.
So here I'm going to call it Saturdays.
And he said I'm going to call it names.
Right.
Because he wanted to give the keys which is the names of people and salaries which is the actual value
that I'm getting.
Let's find it again.
If I get on it's and if I want it to view here on my SATs and they wanted to view my names and if I
read it again.
So salaries will get a shawqi 25 twenty and thirty four names.
And if so what the names we're going to call me Alex salley and Dean which is basically the keys that
we have here.
She looks great.
Now I wanted to get the total of all the values.
So we have done that before.
I'm going to say okay please go and opt in the summation for example of my salary K Dot values.
All right.
And that should open in the summation.
You can call it let's say tall and I fold on that looks good n can come here and print.
For example my total value of the land that you'll come up with a value of 83 which is a summation of
all the values that we have got here.
All right.
That's pretty much it for question number nine.
I'm asking you to update the length of the value of the following dictionary and sort its elements.
OK.
How can we do this.
So in order to get the length of the values here of the dictionary you know what you could do here.
And I say okay I can apply the length function of them before lents Okay.
But I wanted to go to my dictionary K Dot values all right to do it in the lenth n I can basically just
just print it.
So Fred do print here.
There should.
Prints.
My values are saying okay that's it are five elements.
Looks great.
And if I wanted to saw it's basically the elements.
I could do that by saying okay now I've got a function called sorted alright.
And what I can do you are going to copy this.
That's it here.
I'm going to say coming up as well.
But it's sort of lenth.
I wanted to paint this sorted which is a function that you can run to just sort of the element of the
value of my dictionary.
See you guys can see that they have sorted it to 10 22 23 in an ascending fashionable ascending order.
Ah.
The next question that we have it's kind of advanced or gay.
Again I'm not expecting great two to solve this one.
It's fine because it has tons of like you know that has fallen loops that is if conditions within him
cover any of that you know like and you can please feel free to give that until we actually cover the
loops and if conditions.
But he is just going to show you how can we do it in a very very simple format.
I've just got a copy of the solution for you.
OK.
Again please don't get intimidated.
We're going to cover it again in tons of details moving forward.
But what we're doing here again say okay so please this is my dictionary and I won it to simply filter
out value that greater than or equal to 30 right.
So what we have done he'll say okay please for a loop for is means you know where we want to create
a loop wearing like for example go ahead and go to each of these elements.
Okay masik for or for each key and value in my dictionary the items go to my dictionary which has items
here or pain all the keys and all the value so simply hiragana in all.
If each key each value.
OK it's a very interesting forum to just write.
Comes over you know like codes in just one line.
OK.
And for each of these basically value.
If you find the venue less than or equal to 30 or 8 please go back and return my key n. y value.
Simply put you're doing kind of filtering.
You are going through with a key dictionary and you're opening kind of only the keys and values associated
with this.
Only if the value is less than or equal to 30 or.
And then I ask you to print the results.
Let's run it.
And if I it you'd find that you come up with only these two keys which is 20 and 30 here because at
least it's less then or if you wanted to get that that are greater than or equal to 30.
You can just make it okay.
Greater than or equal to 230.
If I do that if I'm there to come up with basically 30 and 50 which is basically what we're looking
for are.
Again please don't get intimidated with this because it has tons of and within it cover if conditions
yet we didn't cover for loops yet.
It is one give you an idea of when we mix everything together.
We can do tons of activities in just one line of code.
All right perfect.
The last exercise that we have which is you know kind of exercise for the booleans are eight which is
asking you what this code will going to generate.
Let's assume that have x and y.
And I'm asking you to print is X greater than y.
Yes x is greater than y that's false right.
So here I'm expecting you guys to just write here false.
And here I'm asking is X less than Y.
That's actually true C.
I'm expecting this to be true and I am asking you to e x equals to Y.
That was actually false.
And here I am asking you to tell me okay is x.
This is looks weird you know but basically not the exclamation mark equal.
That means it's not equal.
GM I'm single is X not equal Y.
Yes that was actually true.
And that's pretty much what I'm expecting to if I write this so you'll come up with false true false
too.
Which is exactly what we're expecting.
Again false in the kids 0 and 2 indicates one are right.
And that's pretty much all what we have for this section.
I hope you guys have mastered by now.
The dictionaries and booleans you guys should be proud.
Great job.
And see you guys in the next section.